This episode is all about Compliance and Regulatory frameworks.

Compliance and regulatory frameworks are just that. There are sets of guidelines, and best practices. Organizations follow these guideline to meet regulatory requirements, improve processes, strengthen security, and achieve other business objectives.

These common frameworks give us a common language that can be used to build the culture of security.

So there is one regulatory framework that is used in todays culture. PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards) This is about how large businesses and corporations are required to deal with PII(Personally Identifiable Information) Banks and anyone who deals with credit cards or PII fall into this catagory.

Here is a list of the Requirements Banks and Businesses are required to live by when dealing with our PII.

1. Install and maintain a firewall

Firewalls protect your network by allowing or denying online traffic. This is often the first line of defense against cyber threats.

Establishment of firewall and router rules to block unapproved traffic.

Public access restriction from the internet to the cardholder data environment.

Firewall deployment on devices used to access the organization’s network.

2.  Reconfigure default vendor settings
One of the easiest ways for a hacker to gain entry into an internal network is by trying the default password combinations. For most hardware devices and network services, default passwords are widely known, and it’s not difficult to quickly run them through. If they aren’t changed, hackers can gain an entry inside the system without any sophisticated hacking techniques.

Before deploying a system on the network, it’s imperative to change its default credentials.

Have custom configuration standards for all system components.

Non-console administrative access has to be encrypted and password protected.

Shared hosting providers should also change default credentials from their server management software side.

3. Protect stored cardholder data
As a merchant, you have to know where the cardholder's data is going and how it will be stored. No matter what storage compartment is used, most sensitive data should be stored only in an encrypted form.

Minimize data retention time.

Don’t collect any data after the user has passed authorization.

Mask displayed a permanent account number.

Cryptographic keys used for cardholder data encryption should be encrypted.

Have full documentation regarding crucial management procedures.

4.  Encrypt cardholder data transmission

The same standards that hold for payment data storage should also be applied for its transmission. Cardholder data transfers should be performed only via encrypted networks to avoid alterations in transit.

Rely on strong cryptography protocols like SSL/TLS for cardholder’s data encryption in transit.

Avoid storing PANs in plain text.

5. Protect against malware
Malware can infiltrate your network via e-mail attachments, thumb drives brought by your employees, and other methods. Therefore, PCI DSS includes requirements to have anti-malware countermeasures and adequately maintain them. This should consist of all devices used by the staff and technical department.

Install antivirus software on your devices to protect each endpoint against malware.

Regularly patch your antivirus software to keep up with the latest malware developments.

6. Maintain your system’s and applications' security
It’s essential to have a thorough risk assessment for your organization’s systems. This should allow you to identify potential attack vectors that could be used to breach the company’s network to obtain financial information. Discovered vulnerabilities should also be patched up as soon as possible.

Always install the latest vendor-supplied security updates.

Have a framework for timely new vulnerabilities identification.

Make sure your developed applications also follow PCI DSS

Protect your public infrastructure against known attacks

7. Restrict access to cardholder data
Access to payment data should be provided only on a need-to-know basis and for specific roles. In a nutshell, only if your role requires access to a customer’s payment data, it’s the only case when permission could be granted.

System components dealing with cardholder’s data should be accessible to personnel directly required to have such access.

Have access control systems in cases when the same components are shared between multiple users.

8. Assign user access identification
According to PCI DSS, every user should be assigned their unique credentials for accessing critical systems. Shared passwords for several user groups should be avoided as they increase the risks of falling into a malicious individual’s hands. It also ensures a trace of user logs to use as a reference in a data breach.

User names should be assigned to each user accessing the system.

Enforce strict user authentication methods.

Add two-factor authentication to increase further the complexity required to log in.

Don’t store passwords in plain text.

9.  Restrict physical access to cardholder data
Physical security is another security side that organizations have to take care of to be PCI DSS compliant. Protection of physical hardware is crucial as hackers could install various bypass mechanisms to tap into the network directly. Therefore, physical access to servers housing cardholder data should be restricted with video cameras and general electronic monitoring.

Enforce strict entry controls to buildings and rooms housing hardware that processes cardholder’s data.

Develop authorization mechanisms that only employees would be able to get into the premises.

Use video surveillance and keep visitor logs to maintain a physical audit trail.

Store backups off-site in a secured location.

Shred media containing cardholder data when it’s no longer needed.

10. Track and monitor network access
It’s always a good bet to assume that your company’s network is in someone’s sights. Therefore, it’s necessary to keep all networks properly protected and monitor each access. Network activity logs should help you discover irregular patterns, which could be used to deter attacks.

Link access to specific components to specific users.

Automate your auditing to have data to reconstruct the events.

Review and evaluate system component logs daily.

11. Perpetual security systems testing
Your system should be tested against vulnerabilities that would allow the execution of malicious code. In-depth penetration tests can provide a good insight into the system’s security status and highlight the areas that should be improved. Perpetual security maintenance allows for patching up the holes that could be used to get into your network.

Use wireless analyzers to find the presence of wireless points on-premise.

Perform vulnerability scans on internal and external networks.

Monitor your traffic with a network intrusion system.

12. Have a cybersecurity policy
Your cybersecurity policy should cover employees, management, and third-parties responsibilities. It’s a foundation that sets the tone for how all cybersecurity matters will be handled in your organization. All your employees should be aware of the responsibility that falls on their shoulders.

Have a security policy that addresses all PCI DSS requirements

Ensure that your policy clearly defines all cybersecurity responsibilities.

Implement a mandatory cybersecurity awareness program and test with period cybersecurity exercises.

Have an incident response plan.