This episode is all about Compliance and Regulatory frameworks.

Compliance and regulatory frameworks are just that. There are sets of guidelines, and best practices. Organizations follow these guideline to meet regulatory requirements, improve processes, strengthen security, and achieve other business objectives.

These common frameworks give us a common language that can be used to build the culture of security.

So there is one regulatory framework that is used in todays culture. PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards) This is about how large businesses and corporations are required to deal with PII(Personally Identifiable Information) Banks and anyone who deals with credit cards or PII fall into this catagory.

Here is a list of the Requirements Banks and Businesses are required to live by when dealing with our PII.

1. Install and maintain a firewall

Firewalls protect your network by allowing or denying online traffic. This is often the first line of defense against cyber threats.

Establishment of firewall and router rules to block unapproved traffic.

Public access restriction from the internet to the cardholder data environment.

Firewall deployment on devices used to access the organization’s network.

2.  Reconfigure default vendor settings
One of the easiest ways for a hacker to gain entry into an internal network is by trying the default password combinations. For most hardware devices and network services, default passwords are widely known, and it’s not difficult to quickly run them through. If they aren’t changed, hackers can gain an entry inside the system without any sophisticated hacking techniques.

Before deploying a system on the network, it’s imperative to change its default credentials.

Have custom configuration standards for all system components.

Non-console administrative access has to be encrypted and password protected.

Shared hosting providers should also change default credentials from their server management software side.

3. Protect stored cardholder data
As a merchant, you have to know where the cardholder's data is going and how it will be stored. No matter what storage compartment is used, most sensitive data should be stored only in an encrypted form.

Minimize data retention time.

Don’t collect any data after the user has passed authorization.

Mask displayed a permanent account number.

Cryptographic keys used for cardholder data encryption should be encrypted.

Have full documentation regarding crucial management procedures.

4.  Encrypt cardholder data transmission

The same standards that hold for payment data storage should also be applied for its transmission. Cardholder data transfers should be performed only via encrypted networks to avoid alterations in transit.

Rely on strong cryptography protocols like SSL/TLS for cardholder’s data encryption in transit.

Avoid storing PANs in plain text.

5. Protect against malware
Malware can infiltrate your network via e-mail attachments, thumb drives brought by your employees, and other methods. Therefore, PCI DSS includes requirements to have anti-malware countermeasures and adequately maintain them. This should consist of all devices used by the staff and technical department.

Install antivirus software on your devices to protect each endpoint against malware.

Regularly patch your antivirus software to keep up with the latest malware developments.

6. Maintain your system’s and applications' security
It’s essential to have a thorough risk assessment for your organization’s systems. This should allow you to identify potential attack vectors that could be used to breach the company’s network to obtain financial information. Discovered vulnerabilities should also be patched up as soon as possible.

Always install the latest vendor-supplied security updates.

Have a framework for timely new vulnerabilities identification.

Make sure your developed applications also follow PCI DSS

Protect your public infrastructure against known attacks

7. Restrict access to cardholder data
Access to payment data should be provided only on a need-to-know basis and for specific roles. In a nutshell, only if your role requires access to a customer’s payment data, it’s the only case when permission could be granted.

System components dealing with cardholder’s data should be accessible to personnel directly required to have such access.

Have access control systems in cases when the same components are shared between multiple users.

8. Assign user access identification
According to PCI DSS, every user should be assigned their unique credentials for accessing critical systems. Shared passwords for several user groups should be avoided as they increase the risks of falling into a malicious individual’s hands. It also ensures a trace of user logs to use as a reference in a data breach.

User names should be assigned to each user accessing the system.

Enforce strict user authentication methods.

Add two-factor authentication to increase further the complexity required to log in.

Don’t store passwords in plain text.

9.  Restrict physical access to cardholder data
Physical security is another security side that organizations have to take care of to be PCI DSS compliant. Protection of physical hardware is crucial as hackers could install various bypass mechanisms to tap into the network directly. Therefore, physical access to servers housing cardholder data should be restricted with video cameras and general electronic monitoring.

Enforce strict entry controls to buildings and rooms housing hardware that processes cardholder’s data.

Develop authorization mechanisms that only employees would be able to get into the premises.

Use video surveillance and keep visitor logs to maintain a physical audit trail.

Store backups off-site in a secured location.

Shred media containing cardholder data when it’s no longer needed.

10. Track and monitor network access
It’s always a good bet to assume that your company’s network is in someone’s sights. Therefore, it’s necessary to keep all networks properly protected and monitor each access. Network activity logs should help you discover irregular patterns, which could be used to deter attacks.

Link access to specific components to specific users.

Automate your auditing to have data to reconstruct the events.

Review and evaluate system component logs daily.

11. Perpetual security systems testing
Your system should be tested against vulnerabilities that would allow the execution of malicious code. In-depth penetration tests can provide a good insight into the system’s security status and highlight the areas that should be improved. Perpetual security maintenance allows for patching up the holes that could be used to get into your network.

Use wireless analyzers to find the presence of wireless points on-premise.

Perform vulnerability scans on internal and external networks.

Monitor your traffic with a network intrusion system.

12. Have a cybersecurity policy
Your cybersecurity policy should cover employees, management, and third-parties responsibilities. It’s a foundation that sets the tone for how all cybersecurity matters will be handled in your organization. All your employees should be aware of the responsibility that falls on their shoulders.

Have a security policy that addresses all PCI DSS requirements

Ensure that your policy clearly defines all cybersecurity responsibilities.

Implement a mandatory cybersecurity awareness program and test with period cybersecurity exercises.

Have an incident response plan.


Another regulatory standard widely known, used, and respected is the CIS (Center for Internet Security)

CIS Control 1: Inventory and Control of Enterprise Assets

- Overview
Actively manage (inventory, track, and correct) all enterprise assets (end-user devices, including portable and mobile; network devices; non-computing/Internet of Things (IoT) devices; and servers) connected to the infrastructure physically, virtually, remotely, and those within cloud environments, to accurately know the totality of assets that need to be monitored and protected within the enterprise. This will also support identifying unauthorized and unmanaged assets to remove or remediate.
 

CIS Control 2: Inventory and Control of Software Assets
- Overview
Actively manage (inventory, track, and correct) all software (operating systems and applications) on the network so that only authorized software is installed and can execute, and that unauthorized and unmanaged software is found and prevented from installation or execution.

CIS Control 3: Data Protection
- Overview
Develop processes and technical controls to identify, classify, securely handle, retain, and dispose of data.

CIS Control 4: Secure Configuration of Enterprise Assets and Software
- Overview
Establish and maintain the secure configuration of enterprise assets (end-user devices, including portable and mobile; network devices; non-computing/IoT devices; and servers) and software (operating systems and applications). 

CIS Control 5: Account Management
- Overview
Use processes and tools to assign and manage authorization to credentials for user accounts, including administrator accounts, as well as service accounts, to enterprise assets and software.

CIS Control 6: Access Control Management
- Overview
Use processes and tools to create, assign, manage, and revoke access credentials and privileges for user, administrator, and service accounts for enterprise assets and software.

CIS Control 7: Continuous Vulnerability Management
- Overview
Develop a plan to continuously assess and track vulnerabilities on all enterprise assets within the enterprise’s infrastructure, in order to remediate, and minimize, the window of opportunity for attackers. Monitor public and private industry sources for new threat and vulnerability information.

CIS Control 8: Audit Log Management
- Overview
Collect, alert, review, and retain audit logs of events that could help detect, understand, or recover from an attack.

CIS Control 9: Email and Web Browser Protections
- Overview
Improve protections and detections of threats from email and web vectors, as these are opportunities for attackers to manipulate human behavior through direct engagement.

CIS Control 10: Malware Defenses
- Overview
Prevent or control the installation, spread, and execution of malicious applications, code, or scripts on enterprise assets.
 

CIS Control 11: Data Recovery
- Overview
Establish and maintain data recovery practices sufficient to restore in-scope enterprise assets to a pre-incident and trusted state.

CIS Control 12: Network Infrastructure Management
- Overview
Establish, implement, and actively manage (track, report, correct) network devices, in order to prevent attackers from exploiting vulnerable network services and access points.

CIS Control 13: Network Monitoring and Defense
- Overview
Operate processes and tooling to establish and maintain comprehensive network monitoring and defense against security threats across the enterprise’s network infrastructure and user base. 

CIS Control 14: Security Awareness and Skills Training
- Overview
Develop a process to evaluate service providers who hold sensitive data, or are responsible for an enterprise’s critical IT platforms or processes, to ensure these providers are protecting those platforms and data appropriately.

CIS Control 15: Service Provider Management
- Overview
Develop a process to evaluate service providers who hold sensitive data, or are responsible for an enterprise’s critical IT platforms or processes, to ensure these providers are protecting those platforms and data appropriately.

CIS Control 16: Application Software Security
- Overview
Manage the security life cycle of in-house developed, hosted, or acquired software to prevent, detect, and remediate security weaknesses before they can impact the enterprise.

CIS Control 17: Incident Response Management
- Overview
Establish a program to develop and maintain an incident response capability (e.g., policies, plans, procedures, defined roles, training, and communications) to prepare, detect, and quickly respond to an attack. 

CIS Control 18: Penetration Testing
- Overview
Test the effectiveness and resiliency of enterprise assets through identifying and exploiting weaknesses in controls (people, processes, and technology), and simulating the objectives and actions of an attacker.


Another widely adopted and very popular frame work is the NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) framework. Here is a brief overview best I can without pasting the whole article in here...

From a technical standpoint, cybersecurity starts from managing identities, credentials, and their privileges and related access.

SSH is central in cybersecurity, because it is used in every data center for managing and securing networks, hardware, virtualization, systems, and/or data transfers.

Some of the most essential controls and SSH guidance are summarized in the following table. 

NOTE: ** There are three Primary Components of the Frame Work.
- CORE: Desire cybersecurity outcomes organized in a heierarchy and aligned to more detailed guidence controls.
- Profiles: Alignment of an organizations requirements and objectives, risk appetite and resources using the desired outcomes of the framework core.
- Implementation Tiers: A qualitative measure of organizational security risk management practices.




Control	Relating to	SSH Guidance

PR.AC-1	Managing identities and credentials	In addition to users and passwords, SSH keys are access credentials and need to be managed. Many organizations have 10x more SSH keys than traditional users and passwords, and they often grant privileged access. SSH key management is an essential part of IAM and risk management.

PR.AC-3	Remote access	Remote access must be properly managed and monitored. Encrypted protocols, such as SSH, Remote Desktop, or HTTPS, are typically used. Access should be monitored and tunneling back into the internal network from the outside should be prevented.

PR.AC-5	Network integrity	A firewall should be used to protect the boundary and back-tunneling should be prevented.

PR.DS-2	Data in transit	File transfers should use secure protocols. SFTP is the secure file transfer standard supported by all major vendors. SSH is the standard for remote system administration. CryptoAuditor provides auditability, analytics, and forensics capabilities for both.

PR.DS-5	Protection against data leaks	Data Loss Prevention (DLP) systems should be deployed. Such systems should also monitor encrypted file transfers and terminal sessions.

PR.DS-7	Dev/test separation from production	SSH key management needed as key-based access from dev/test to prod is a common finding.

PR.IP-3	Configuration change control	SSH keys are part of security-related configuration, uncontrolled self-provisioning is not acceptable.

PR.MA-2	Remote maintenance	All 3rd party connections should be monitored and access authorized according to process.

PR.PT-4	Communications & control networks protected	SSH or SSL/TLS should be used to protect data transfers and control connections.

DE.CM-4	Malicious code detected	Anti-virus systems should also inspect files inside encrypted protocols entering the organization.

NOTE: **The role of SSH keys in access management has to be emphasized. Their use has become extremely prevalent, to the degree that they now constitute over 90% of all credentials in many organizations. Proper assessment and management of SSH keys is a critical priority. SSH keys are already being exploited by malware and hackers.

Detailed view of core controls
The framework provides core controls and processes in several areas essential to cybersecurity. It defines the five concurrent functions Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, Recover. Several of these functions relate to processes and policies. The Protect function, in particular, relates to concrete protections that need to be implemented for systems and data.

Actual controls fall into a number of categories:

Category	Explanation

Asset management (ID.AM)	Inventorying of devices, systems, software platforms, applications, external information systems; mapping organizational communications and data flows; prioritization of resources; definition of cybersecurity roles and responsibilities

Business environment (ID.BE)	Role in critical infrastructure and supply chain; mission priorities & resilience requirements; dependencies on other services; IS role alignment; legal and regulatory requirements understood and managed; governance and risk management processes address cybersecurity risks

Risk assessment (ID.RA)	Vulnerabilities & threats identified, documented, communicated, evaluated (impact & likelihood); responses identified and prioritized

Risk management strategy (ID.RM)	Processes, risk tolerance identified; consideration given to role in critical infrastructure

Access control (PR.AC)	Identities and credentials are managed for authorized devices and users; physical access is controlled; remote access is managed; permissions are managed (principle of least privilege, separation of duties); network integrity protected

Awareness and training (PR.AT)	Awareness and training, privileged user awareness, third party awareness, executive awareness, physical and information security roles training & awareness

Data security (PR.DS)	Data-at-rest protection; data-in-transit protection; formal asset management & disposal; capacity & availability management; protection against data leaks; integrity checking; separation of development and test from production
Information protection processes and procedures (PR.IP)	Compliance with policy & regulations; data destruction; continuous improvement; information sharing; response planning; response and recovery testing; HR processes (deprovisioning, personnel screening); vulnerability management

Maintenance (PR.MA)	Timely maintenance; control and monitoring over remote maintenance

Protective technology (PR.PT)	Log collection and analytics; removable media usage controls; access to systems and assets is controlled (incorporating the principle of least functionality); communications and control networks are protected

Anomalies and events (DE.AE)	Baseline established, detected events analyzed, multi-source data aggregation and correlation, impact determination, incident alert thresholds

Security continuous monitoring (DE.CM)	Network monitoring; physical monitoring; personnel monitoring; malicious code detection; unauthorized mobile code detection; external service provider monitoring; monitoring unauthorized personnel, devices, and software; vulnerability scans

Detection processes (DE.DP)	Roles and responsibilities, activities, testing, dissemination, continuous improvement

Response planning (RS.RP)	Response plan maintenance and execution

Communications (RS.CO)	Personnel roles, event reporting, information sharing, coordination with stakeholders, voluntary information sharing for situational awareness

Analysis (RS.AN)	Investigation of notifications, impact analysis, forensics investigations, incident categorization

Mitigation (RS.MI)	Containment, mitigation, documentation of acceptable risks

Improvements (RS.IM)	Incorporating lessons learned into response strategy, updating response strategies

Recovery planning (RC.RP)	Execution of recovery plan

Improvements (RC.IM)	Incorporating lessons learned into recovery plans and recover strategies

Communications (RC.CO)	Public relations management, reputation repair, communication of recovery activities to internal stakeholders, executives, management teams

NOTE: ** This is not a one size fits all framework. You are going to need to Nip and Tuck if you will, to get this molded to your paticular business you are trying to secure.
