Another widely adopted and very popular frame work is the NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) framework. Here is a brief overview best I can without pasting the whole article in here...

From a technical standpoint, cybersecurity starts from managing identities, credentials, and their privileges and related access.

SSH is central in cybersecurity, because it is used in every data center for managing and securing networks, hardware, virtualization, systems, and/or data transfers.

Some of the most essential controls and SSH guidance are summarized in the following table. 

NOTE: ** There are three Primary Components of the Frame Work.
- CORE: Desire cybersecurity outcomes organized in a heierarchy and aligned to more detailed guidence controls.
- Profiles: Alignment of an organizations requirements and objectives, risk appetite and resources using the desired outcomes of the framework core.
- Implementation Tiers: A qualitative measure of organizational security risk management practices.




Control	Relating to	SSH Guidance

PR.AC-1	Managing identities and credentials	In addition to users and passwords, SSH keys are access credentials and need to be managed. Many organizations have 10x more SSH keys than traditional users and passwords, and they often grant privileged access. SSH key management is an essential part of IAM and risk management.

PR.AC-3	Remote access	Remote access must be properly managed and monitored. Encrypted protocols, such as SSH, Remote Desktop, or HTTPS, are typically used. Access should be monitored and tunneling back into the internal network from the outside should be prevented.

PR.AC-5	Network integrity	A firewall should be used to protect the boundary and back-tunneling should be prevented.

PR.DS-2	Data in transit	File transfers should use secure protocols. SFTP is the secure file transfer standard supported by all major vendors. SSH is the standard for remote system administration. CryptoAuditor provides auditability, analytics, and forensics capabilities for both.

PR.DS-5	Protection against data leaks	Data Loss Prevention (DLP) systems should be deployed. Such systems should also monitor encrypted file transfers and terminal sessions.

PR.DS-7	Dev/test separation from production	SSH key management needed as key-based access from dev/test to prod is a common finding.

PR.IP-3	Configuration change control	SSH keys are part of security-related configuration, uncontrolled self-provisioning is not acceptable.

PR.MA-2	Remote maintenance	All 3rd party connections should be monitored and access authorized according to process.

PR.PT-4	Communications & control networks protected	SSH or SSL/TLS should be used to protect data transfers and control connections.

DE.CM-4	Malicious code detected	Anti-virus systems should also inspect files inside encrypted protocols entering the organization.

NOTE: **The role of SSH keys in access management has to be emphasized. Their use has become extremely prevalent, to the degree that they now constitute over 90% of all credentials in many organizations. Proper assessment and management of SSH keys is a critical priority. SSH keys are already being exploited by malware and hackers.

Detailed view of core controls
The framework provides core controls and processes in several areas essential to cybersecurity. It defines the five concurrent functions Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, Recover. Several of these functions relate to processes and policies. The Protect function, in particular, relates to concrete protections that need to be implemented for systems and data.

Actual controls fall into a number of categories:

Category	Explanation

Asset management (ID.AM)	Inventorying of devices, systems, software platforms, applications, external information systems; mapping organizational communications and data flows; prioritization of resources; definition of cybersecurity roles and responsibilities

Business environment (ID.BE)	Role in critical infrastructure and supply chain; mission priorities & resilience requirements; dependencies on other services; IS role alignment; legal and regulatory requirements understood and managed; governance and risk management processes address cybersecurity risks

Risk assessment (ID.RA)	Vulnerabilities & threats identified, documented, communicated, evaluated (impact & likelihood); responses identified and prioritized

Risk management strategy (ID.RM)	Processes, risk tolerance identified; consideration given to role in critical infrastructure

Access control (PR.AC)	Identities and credentials are managed for authorized devices and users; physical access is controlled; remote access is managed; permissions are managed (principle of least privilege, separation of duties); network integrity protected

Awareness and training (PR.AT)	Awareness and training, privileged user awareness, third party awareness, executive awareness, physical and information security roles training & awareness

Data security (PR.DS)	Data-at-rest protection; data-in-transit protection; formal asset management & disposal; capacity & availability management; protection against data leaks; integrity checking; separation of development and test from production
Information protection processes and procedures (PR.IP)	Compliance with policy & regulations; data destruction; continuous improvement; information sharing; response planning; response and recovery testing; HR processes (deprovisioning, personnel screening); vulnerability management

Maintenance (PR.MA)	Timely maintenance; control and monitoring over remote maintenance

Protective technology (PR.PT)	Log collection and analytics; removable media usage controls; access to systems and assets is controlled (incorporating the principle of least functionality); communications and control networks are protected

Anomalies and events (DE.AE)	Baseline established, detected events analyzed, multi-source data aggregation and correlation, impact determination, incident alert thresholds

Security continuous monitoring (DE.CM)	Network monitoring; physical monitoring; personnel monitoring; malicious code detection; unauthorized mobile code detection; external service provider monitoring; monitoring unauthorized personnel, devices, and software; vulnerability scans

Detection processes (DE.DP)	Roles and responsibilities, activities, testing, dissemination, continuous improvement

Response planning (RS.RP)	Response plan maintenance and execution

Communications (RS.CO)	Personnel roles, event reporting, information sharing, coordination with stakeholders, voluntary information sharing for situational awareness

Analysis (RS.AN)	Investigation of notifications, impact analysis, forensics investigations, incident categorization

Mitigation (RS.MI)	Containment, mitigation, documentation of acceptable risks

Improvements (RS.IM)	Incorporating lessons learned into response strategy, updating response strategies

Recovery planning (RC.RP)	Execution of recovery plan

Improvements (RC.IM)	Incorporating lessons learned into recovery plans and recover strategies

Communications (RC.CO)	Public relations management, reputation repair, communication of recovery activities to internal stakeholders, executives, management teams

NOTE: ** This is not a one size fits all framework. You are going to need to Nip and Tuck if you will, to get this molded to your paticular business you are trying to secure.
